phylogenetic/README.md, before:

# Phylogenetic

This workflow uses WNV metadata and sequences to produce one [Nextstrain datasets][]
that can be visualized in Auspice.

## Workflow Usage

The workflow can be run from the top level directory:
```
nextstrain build phylogenetic
```

Alternatively, the workflow can also be run from within the phylogenetic directory:
```
cd phylogenetic
nextstrain build .
```

This produces the default outputs of the phylogenetic workflow:

- auspice_json(s) = auspice/*.json

## Data Requirements

The core phylogenetic workflow will use two files output from the Ingest workflow 'metadata_all.tsv' and 'sequences_all.fasta'
Any desired data formatting and curations should be done as part of the [ingest](../ingest/) workflow.

## Subsampling

The first step in the phylogenetic workflow is to subsample (or filter) the data. The subsampling criteria are specified in the 
phylogenetic/config/defaults.yaml file. The criteria are then executed in the Snakefile using wildcards and an input function. 
Documentation about subsampling can be found here [filtering and subsampling] (https://docs.nextstrain.org/en/latest/guides/bioinformatics/filtering-and-subsampling.html#subsampling-within-augur-filter)


## Defaults

The defaults directory contains all of the default configurations for the phylogenetic workflow.

[defaults/config.yaml](defaults/config.yaml) contains all of the default configuration parameters
used for the phylogenetic workflow. Use Snakemake's `--configfile`/`--config`
options to override these default values.

## Snakefile and rules

The rules directory contains separate Snakefiles (`*.smk`) as modules of the core phylogenetic workflow.
The modules of the workflow are in separate files to keep the main phylogenetic [Snakefile](Snakefile) succinct and organized.

The `workdir` is hardcoded to be the phylogenetic directory so all filepaths for
inputs/outputs should be relative to the phylogenetic directory.

Modules are all [included](https://snakemake.readthedocs.io/en/stable/snakefiles/modularization.html#includes)
in the main Snakefile in the order that they are expected to run.

## Build configs

The build-configs directory contains custom configs and rules that override and/or
extend the default workflow.

- [ci](build-configs/ci/) - CI build that runs with example data

[Nextstrain datasets]: https://docs.nextstrain.org/en/latest/reference/glossary.html#term-dataset

Commit message:

Update README.md run workflow for global and WA builds. (#76)
* Update README.md to: 
Add how to run phylogenetic workflow for global and WA focused builds.
Polish and fix typos.
Refine the subsampling and private data subsections.
Replace the term jurisdiction for clarity.
Format to reflect the current status.

phylogenetic/README.md, after:

# Phylogenetic

This workflow uses WNV metadata and sequences to produce one [Nextstrain datasets][]
that can be visualized in Auspice.

## Workflow Usage

The workflow to execute the global build can be run from the top level directory:
```
nextstrain build phylogenetic
```

The workflow to execute the Washington focused build can also be run from the top level directory:
```
nextstrain build phylogenetic --configfile build-configs/washington-state/config.yaml
```

Alternatively, the workflow can also be run from within the phylogenetic directory:
```
cd phylogenetic
nextstrain build .
```

This produces the default outputs of the phylogenetic workflow:

- auspice_json(s) = auspice/*.json

## Data Requirements

The core phylogenetic workflow will use two files output from the Ingest workflow 'metadata_all.tsv' and 'sequences_all.fasta'
Any desired data formatting and curations should be done as part of the [ingest](../ingest/) workflow.

## Subsampling

The first step in the phylogenetic workflow is to subsample (or filter) the data. The subsampling criteria are specified in the 
phylogenetic/config/defaults.yaml file. The criteria are then executed in the Snakefile using wildcards and an input function. 
Documentation about subsampling can be found here [filtering and subsampling] (https://docs.nextstrain.org/en/latest/guides/bioinformatics/filtering-and-subsampling.html#subsampling-within-augur-filter)


## Defaults

The defaults directory contains all of the default configurations for the phylogenetic workflow.

[defaults/config.yaml](defaults/config.yaml) contains all of the default configuration parameters
used for the phylogenetic workflow. Use Snakemake's `--configfile`/`--config`
options to override these default values.

## Snakefile and rules

The rules directory contains separate Snakefiles (`*.smk`) as modules of the core phylogenetic workflow.
The modules of the workflow are in separate files to keep the main phylogenetic [Snakefile](Snakefile) succinct and organized.

The `workdir` is hardcoded to be the phylogenetic directory so all filepaths for
inputs/outputs should be relative to the phylogenetic directory.

Modules are all [included](https://snakemake.readthedocs.io/en/stable/snakefiles/modularization.html#includes)
in the main Snakefile in the order that they are expected to run.

## Build configs

The build-configs directory contains custom configs and rules that override and/or
extend the default workflow.

- [ci](build-configs/ci/) - CI build that runs with example data

[Nextstrain datasets]: https://docs.nextstrain.org/en/latest/reference/glossary.html#term-dataset
